Before we actually write any fire storm database code we have to understand a couple fundamental concepts
about how fire stores database works.
It will help us also understand what it is that we're actually going to do from a coding perspective.
But before that in order for me to show you these concepts we actually have to go into the database.
The first thing we want to do is click this database tab inside of the develop sidebar in here.
We want to select create database and we'll get prompted with one of two options.
Now the first one is called Locked mode and the second is test mode.
And this is essentially the beginning security rules that are set up for our new cloud fire store database.
When we create it locked mode essentially prevents any one from reading and writing to our storage test
mode.
Doesn't matter.
It means that anybody can read and write to our database.
Now what does that mean.
Well this is one of those concepts on the right hand side here.
You'll see what looks like an odd version of some javascript code and what this says is this is kind
of like a rule that we can write inside of our cloud firestorm.
That will either allow or deny different permissions of what people can do.
What do I mean by this.
Let's say you had a user that wanted to fetch all of the data related to the users like they wanted
a list of all the users while if we were storing sensitive information on those users we would not want
anyone to be able to do that let alone modify that data.
So using this block of code here inside of our database we're able to have the flexibility to control
what people are able to do and not able to do.
It's essentially like we're setting restrictions on what rules we want to enforce so that our database
is as secure as possible.
So we to begin want to start in test mode and we'll end up writing some rules so that we'll get more
secure as we go.
But we just want to explore this for now.
So let's enable it and it will end up creating our first database for us.
Now once we're in here that rules tab is actually those things that I was talking about.
This is where we'll see those rules.
The first one on the right side.
So here we can edit them but we'll figure out that later I promise.
What we really want to see though is this data.
So in a fire store this database is what's called a no sequel database.
It's essentially a fancy way of saying that our database consists of one gigantic Jason object there
are two types of data inside of our database and they're more conceptual.
So the first one is called a collection a collection is exactly as it sounds.
It's like a group of objects except those objects are the second type of data called documents.
So you can almost see them as an array of things and each of those things can also have properties that
point to other collections.
So let's do an example.
Let's say we add a collection called user's we'll click next.
And now we suddenly have this path inside of our database slash users.
And that is a collection and in this collection let's say we added a new document.
In other words a new user.
We can auto generate the IP because every object or document needs a unique identifier so that we know
that in the users the document with this I.D. is that specific user and then let's say they had a display
name of the value E.
So if I save this now in my collection of users there is a document with the I.D. of what we just saw
with the display name of Iowa.
This thing you see on the right hand side is the document itself.
And then inside of this document we can actually add a collection.
So for example let's say our user also had carte items right.
Like they pick some items and they added it to their cart but they haven't checked it out yet.
And in there we'll also generate a new I.D. because the first card item they got was let's say the name
of the item was blue hat.
So now inside of our users collection for this user of yeehaw he has a property which is a collection
of card items and in that collection of card items there is a document of the cart item blue hat.
He could have multiple different card arms let's say he had another one Another one with a unique I.D.
as well.
And the name of that was leather jacket so here we see our car items collection on our user Yahoo.
Has this two items inside of it.
Two documents so that's essentially the main thing in our database.
It just consists of collections and documents and then those documents might have their own collections
and documents now.
That's the idea behind how things are stored in our database.
But the way that we would query for them is like so now we already know that we have firebase imported
and then we have our fire store and we remember exporting out concert fire store equals firebase store
fire store
with this how we actually query those documents as we would literally say something like fire store
dot collection.
Right.
Because we need we want that collection and then we're saying users what this will query for us is this
collection.
Right.
It'll give us the identifier for this collection if we wanted to say go into that users and then find
this document.
We would say dot doc and then we would pass it the I.D. of that document that we're looking for i.e.
that user.
So we're saying fire store.
Get me the collection called users and then get me the document with this I.D. and then from there we
can even we can still keep chaining and say it of that user document that you just got me.
I want his collection of card items and then you can from here also do Doc Doc right.
And we can fetch that specific car item we want whether we want the blue hat or the leather jacket.
We would just copy that I.D. what this is essentially saying is we're asking fire store to get us the
collection of users and then from the collection we want the specific document with this I.D..
So this specific user and then from that user we want it's property collection called Car items and
from that car items we want the specific document with this I.D. by calling this chain firestorm will
end up getting us the object reference to this specific item nested inside of that user's user car items
and then that specific car item if we were to go back to our application now the other way we could
query for this specific document is if we did it like this.
So if we wanted this specific document we could also say fire store dot doc and then slash users slash
this I.T. slash car items slash this I.T..
So this is equivalent to writing this.
And if we wanted this collection of car items it's exactly as you would imagine.
Instead of saying dot Doc we would say dot collection and then we would paste the string up until this
point
so these are the two main methods of how we can get documents and collections from our database now
that we know how to query for them.
There will be ways and methods on these objects that we get that allow us to update them as well.
But we'll see how to do that when we actually start implementing that code into our application what
we're gonna do is we're going to store these authenticated users that we get back from our off library
inside of our database because right now these users are not actually being stored in our database they're
currently held inside of this authentication area and firebase is a where whenever a user signs in whether
or not they've signed it before because it is storing those users.
But we are not actually storing those users in our database.
So there is no usage for us with those user objects in any relation to what we could do with them inside
of our database.
So let's see what we're gonna do.